Updates to article: Testing LLM-enabled applications through evaluations based on Eval Orb 2.0 release (#9003)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/testing-llm-enabled-applications-through-evaluations.adoc

> This page describes common methods for testing applications powered by large language models (LLMs) through evaluations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes methods for testing applications powered by large language models (LLMs) through evaluations, including automating evaluations with CircleCI.
```

> The term _evaluation_ initially referred to a way to rate and compare AI models. It has since expanded to include application-level testing, including Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), function calling, and agent-based applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The term _evaluation_ initially referred to a way to rate and compare AI models. Evaluation has since expanded to include application-level testing, including Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), function calling, and agent-based applications.
```

The evaluation process involves using a dataset of inputs to an LLM or application code, and a method to determine if the returned response matches the expected response. There are many evaluation methodologies, such as:

> * LLM-assisted evaluations

Reviewer: I would like to add descriptions to go along with each of these but can always do that in a separate ticket

Author: I think that makes sense, my sense is we are eager to get this update out sooner than later!

* Respond in a fair and unbiased way, and within a specific style
* Avoid certain expressions

Using an open source library or third-party tools can simplify defining evaluations, tracking progress, and reviewing evaluation results.

== Automating evaluations with CircleCI

> *Evaluations can be automated in CircleCI pipelines.* Automating evaluations with CircleCI can enable you to automatically determine whether or not to accept proposed AI application changes, or deploy and release your AI application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Evaluations can be automated in CircleCI pipelines.* CircleCI enables you to automate decisions regarding the following: 

* Acceptance of proposed AI application changes.
* Deployment and release your AI application.
```

There are important differences between evals and standard software tests to keep in mind:

* LLMs are predominantly non-deterministic, leading to flaky evaluations, more so than typical deterministic software tests.
* Evaluation results are subjective. Small regressions in a metric might not necessarily be a cause for concern, unlike failing tests in standard software testing.

> * Evaluation results are manually reviewed to determine whether AI application performance meets expectations since the output metric values can fluctuate.

Reviewer: I think this section should go in the Evaluations overview section above as it's not about CircleCI specifics?

Reviewer: lines 45-49

> With CircleCI, you can define, automate, run evaluations and evaluation testing using your preferred evaluation framework. Through declaring the necessary commands in your `config.yml`,  you can ensure evaluations are run and evaluation results are tested within your CircleCI pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With CircleCI, you can define, automate, run evaluations and evaluation testing using your preferred evaluation framework. Through declaring the necessary commands in your pipeline configuration,  you can ensure evaluations are run and evaluation results are tested within your CircleCI pipeline.
```

You can automate your entire process of running evaluations, reviewing evaluation results and determining whether results meet expectations, removing manual work involved with triggering evaluations and reviewing evaluation results.

> == The CircleCI Evals orb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== The CircleCI Evals orb
```

* Respond in a fair and unbiased way, and within a specific style
* Avoid certain expressions

Using an open source library or third-party tools can simplify defining evaluations, tracking progress, and reviewing evaluation results.

== Automating evaluations with CircleCI

*Evaluations can be automated in CircleCI pipelines.* Automating evaluations with CircleCI can enable you to automatically determine whether or not to accept proposed AI application changes, or deploy and release your AI application.
There are important differences between evals and standard software tests to keep in mind:

* LLMs are predominantly non-deterministic, leading to flaky evaluations, more so than typical deterministic software tests.
* Evaluation results are subjective. Small regressions in a metric might not necessarily be a cause for concern, unlike failing tests in standard software testing.

> * cause for concern, unlike failing tests in standard software testing.

Author: Good catch!

* Respond in a fair and unbiased way, and within a specific style
* Avoid certain expressions

Some important differences between evaluations and standard software tests to consider include the following:

* LLMs are predominantly non-deterministic, leading to flaky evaluations, more so than typical deterministic software tests.
* Evaluation results are subjective. Small regressions in a metric might not necessarily be a cause for concern, unlike failing tests in standard software testing.
* Evaluation results are manually reviewed to determine whether AI application performance meets expectations since the output metric values can fluctuate.

Using an open source library or third-party tools can simplify defining evaluations, tracking progress, and reviewing evaluation results.

== Automate evaluations with CircleCI

*Evaluations can be automated in CircleCI pipelines.* CircleCI enables you to automate decisions regarding the following:

* Acceptance of proposed AI application changes.

> * Deployment and release your AI application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Deployment and release of your AI application.
```

With CircleCI, you can define, automate, run evaluations and evaluation testing using your preferred evaluation framework. Through declaring the necessary commands in your pipeline configuration you can ensure evaluations are run and evaluation results are tested within your CircleCI pipeline.

You can automate your entire process of running evaluations, reviewing evaluation results and determining whether results meet expectations, removing manual work involved with triggering evaluations and reviewing evaluation results.

=== The CircleCI evals orb

[NOTE]
====

> The link:https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/circleci/evals[CircleCI evals orb] supports integrations with Braintrust and LangSmith.

Reviewer 2: I think we should remove this: the 2.0 version of the Orb does not support 3rd-party integrations yet.

> If you run evaluations using a different tool, let us know at mailto:ai-feedback@circleci.com[]. You can also contribute directly to the official orb by opening a PR on the link:https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/ai-evals-orb[public repository].

Reviewer: Is this section still accurate? Can people just integrate with any third party tool with v2 of the orb?

Author: Good catch - no longer accurate, but more so because the repo is now private and not public.

====

CircleCI provides an link:https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/circleci/evals[official evals orb], which offers the following capabilities:

* Simplifies the definition and execution of evaluation jobs using custom scripts and popular third-party tools.
* Generates reports of evaluation results.
* Tests evaluation results to determine if they meet specified conditions.

> === Running Evaluations in CircleCI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Running Evaluations in CircleCI
```

With the CircleCI evals orb, evaluations:

* Will run as part of your CircleCI pipeline.
* Job step details can include direct links to your evaluation results stored on your 3rd party evaluations provider. When you need to further review the evaluation results in detail, this link enables you to easily navigate to and view your evaluation results.
* Your evaluation results can be saved to a `.json` file, for evaluation testing.

image::/docs/assets/img/docs/llmops/eval-job-run-eval-step.png[Evaluations Job Step Details: Task Evals]

> === Evaluation testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Evaluation testing
```

====

CircleCI provides an link:https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/circleci/evals[official evals orb], which offers the following capabilities:

* Simplifies the definition and execution of evaluation jobs using custom scripts and popular third-party tools.
* Generates reports of evaluation results.
* Tests evaluation results to determine if they meet specified conditions.

==== Run evaluations in CircleCI

With the CircleCI evals orb, evaluations:

* Will run as part of your CircleCI pipeline.
* Job step details can include direct links to your evaluation results stored on your 3rd party evaluations provider. When you need to further review the evaluation results in detail, this link enables you to navigate to and view your evaluation results.
* Your evaluation results can be saved to a `.json` file, for evaluation testing.

image::/docs/assets/img/docs/llmops/eval-job-run-eval-step.png[Evaluations Job Step Details: Task Evals]

==== Test evaluations in CircleCI

> Evaluation testing enables you to determine if your evaluation results meet specified conditions. CircleCI Evaluation Testing is a suite of test cases. Each test case represents a scenario with an assertion to check if a specified condition is true or false. If any test case fails, the evaluation test fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluation testing enables you to determine if your evaluation results meet specified conditions. CircleCI evaluation testing uses a suite of test cases. Each test case represents a scenario with an assertion to check if a specified condition is true or false. If any test case fails, the evaluation test fails.
```

> You can configure test case assertions such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure test case assertions, as follows:
```

* Thresholds: Check whether 1 or more results fall within a range.
+
[,shell]
----
{
  “TestCaseName”: “correctness > 0.99 && toxicity < 0.01”
}
----

* Equality: Check whether results provide an expected answer.
+
[,shell]
----
{
  “TestCaseName”: “label == \”CORRECT\””
}
----

> Evaluation testing results determine if a job should stop or continue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluation testing results determine if a job should stop or continue, as follows:
```

> * **If the evaluation test fails**: Indicates a proposed change resulted in a degradation of model performance. The job will stop running, and the pipeline will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **If the evaluation test fails**: This indicates a proposed change resulted in a degradation of model performance. The job stops running, and the pipeline fails.
```

> * **If the evaluation test passes**: Indicates that model performance has met set criteria, the job will continue running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **If the evaluation test passes**: This indicates that model performance has met set criteria, the job continues to run.
```

==== View evaluation test results

> Evaluation testing determines if your evaluation results meet specified conditions. Evaluation testing results are presented in the CircleCI web UI in two locations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluation testing determines if your evaluation results meet specified conditions. Evaluation testing results are presented in the CircleCI web app in two locations:
```

* In the step details
+
image::/docs/assets/img/docs/llmops/eval-job-eval-test-step.png[Evaluation testing: Job Step Details]

* In the tests tab. Additionally, when a test case has failed, its details are displayed.
+
image::/docs/assets/img/docs/llmops/eval-test-fail-detail.png[Evaluation testing: Test Failure Details]

== Store credentials for your evaluations

> CircleCI makes it easy to store your credentials for LLM providers as well as LLMOps tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Store your credentials for LLM providers and LLMOps tools in CircleCI. Storing credentials in this way allows you to access them directly when configuring your pipeline.
```

> * Navigate to **Project Settings > LLMOps** to enter, verify, and access your OpenAI secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To store your LLM provider credentials, follow these steps:

. Navigate to menu:Project Settings[LLMOps]
. Select btn:[Set Up] next to your chosen provider, and follow the in-app instructions.
```

* Here, you can also find a starting template for your `config.yml` file.

> * You can save the credentials for your evaluation platform, including Braintrust and LangSmith. These credentials can then be used when setting up a pipeline that uses the Evals orb.

Reviewer: Is this something that's coming soon? I see OpenAI and Amazon Bedrock currently?

Author: I was also confused by this; the LLMOps page is awaiting an update.. Though adding credentials for evaluation providers is actually a subtask when adding OpenAI credentials. I altered this copy a bit based on that detail. Thoughts?

Author: ```
To store your LLM provider credentials, follow these steps:

. Navigate to menu:Project Settings[LLMOps]
. Select btn:[Set Up] next to your chosen provider, and follow the in-app instructions.
. When connecting an OpenAI account, you can also save the credentials for your evaluation platform, such as Braintrust and LangSmith. These credentials can then be used when setting up a pipeline that uses the Evals orb.
```

> * To get started, navigate to **Project Settings > LLMOps**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Your evaluation results can be saved to a `.json` file, for evaluation testing.

image::/docs/assets/img/docs/llmops/eval-job-run-eval-step.png[Evaluations Job Step Details: Task Evals]

== Evaluation testing

Evaluation testing enables you to determine if your evaluation results meet specified conditions. CircleCI Evaluation Testing is a suite of test cases. Each test case represents a scenario with an assertion to check if a specified condition is true or false. If any test case fails, the evaluation test fails.

You can configure test case assertions such as

. Thresholds: Check whether 1 or more results fall within a range
+
[,shell]
----
{                                                    
  “TestCaseName”: “correctness > 0.99 && toxicity < 0.01”
}
----

. Equality: Check whether results provide an expected answer
+
[,shell]
----
{                                                    
  “TestCaseName”: “label == \”CORRECT\””
}

> ----

Author: Would you be able to provide a draft of additional detail/examples we could add in here? I added the two above based on what I was aware of from past conversations.

> ----

Reviewer 2: Added some details. Probably needs some rewording, English isn't my first language. 😬
